Term entry Javascript window clearInterval (#2233)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/window-clearInterval/window-clearInterval.md

---
Title: 'clearInterval()'
Description: 'Cancels a timer previously stablished by setInterval().'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Parameters'
  - 'Arguments'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

**`clearInterval()`** is a window method used to shut down the loop-calling process of a `setInterval()` execution when it must be stopped or aborted.

## Syntax

`clearInterval()` receives a parameter called `intervalId` which is returned from the previously created `setInterval()` timer.

The below is an example of how `clearInterval()` is composed:

```pseudo
clearInterval(intervalID)
```

## Example

The following sample shows the usage of `clearInterval()` by canceling a previously added `setInterval()` to a function.

> 

Reviewer: You're still never calling the function in this example, so the example never executes `clearInterval()`

---

> Title: 'clearInterval'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: 'clearInterval()'
```

> Description: 'cancels a timer previously stablished by setInterval()'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Cancels a timer previously stablished by setInterval().'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Parameters'
  - 'Arguments'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> **`clearInterval`** is a window method used to shut down the loop-calling process of a **setInterval()** execution when this has been called and must be stopped or aborted it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`clearInterval()`** is a window method used to shut down the loop-calling process of a `setInterval()` execution when it must be stopped or aborted.
```

## Syntax

> **`clearInterval`** receives a parameter called intervalId which is returned from the previously created `setInterval()` timer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`clearInterval()` receives a parameter called `intervalId` which is returned from the previously created `setInterval()` timer.
```

> The provided sample code contains some examples of how `clearInterval` is composed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The below is an example of how `clearInterval()` is composed:
```

```pseudo
clearInterval(intervalID)
```

## Example

> 

Reviewer: We need an introductory sentence describing what the example does. Also, it doesn't actually stop the timer, it just declares a function to do so.

---
Title: 'clearInterval()'
Description: 'Cancels a timer previously stablished by setInterval().'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Parameters'
  - 'Arguments'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

**`clearInterval()`** is a window method used to shut down the loop-calling process of a `setInterval()` execution when it must be stopped or aborted.

## Syntax

`clearInterval()` receives a parameter called `intervalId` which is returned from the previously created `setInterval()` timer.

The below is an example of how `clearInterval()` is composed:

```pseudo
clearInterval(intervalID)
```

## Example

> The following sample shows the usage of `clearInterval()` by canceling a previously added `setInterval()` to a function.

Reviewer: The example still never stops the timer. Edit it so it actually uses the function you created.
